README.md, before:

# Product Info Fetcher

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/givetwice/product-info-fetcher.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/givetwice/product-info-fetcher)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/GiveTwice/product-info-fetcher/run-tests.yml?branch=main&label=tests&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/GiveTwice/product-info-fetcher/actions/workflows/run-tests.yml)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/givetwice/product-info-fetcher.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/givetwice/product-info-fetcher)

A PHP package that fetches product information from any URL and returns structured data. It parses JSON-LD structured data, Open Graph meta tags, and HTML image elements to extract product details like name, description, price, and images.

## Installation

```bash
composer require givetwice/product-info-fetcher
```

## Usage

### Basic

```php
use GiveTwice\ProductInfoFetcher\ProductInfoFetcher;

$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product'))
    ->fetchAndParse();

// Core fields
echo $product->name;          // "iPhone 15 Pro"
echo $product->description;   // "The latest iPhone with A17 Pro chip"
echo $product->priceInCents;  // 99900
echo $product->priceCurrency; // "USD"
echo $product->url;           // "https://example.com/product"
echo $product->imageUrl;      // "https://example.com/images/iphone.jpg"
echo $product->allImageUrls;  // ["https://...", "https://..."] (all found images)

// Additional fields
echo $product->brand;         // "Apple"
echo $product->sku;           // "IPHONE15PRO-256"
echo $product->gtin;          // "0194253392200"
echo $product->availability;  // ProductAvailability::InStock
echo $product->condition;     // ProductCondition::New
echo $product->rating;        // 4.8
echo $product->reviewCount;   // 1250

// For display purposes
echo $product->getFormattedPrice(); // "USD 999.00"
```

### Pricing

Prices are stored as integers in cents to avoid floating-point precision issues. This follows the same approach used by payment systems like Stripe.

```php
$product->priceInCents;  // 139099 (integer)
$product->priceCurrency; // "EUR" (ISO 4217 currency code)

// For display
$product->getFormattedPrice(); // "EUR 1390.99"

// For calculations (no floating-point issues)
$total = $product->priceInCents * $quantity;
$displayPrice = number_format($total / 100, 2);
```

The parser normalizes various price formats:
- String prices: `"999.00"` → `99900`
- Integer prices: `1479` → `147900`
- European format: `"1.234,56"` → `123456`

### Availability & Condition

The `availability` and `condition` fields return enum instances:

```php
use GiveTwice\ProductInfoFetcher\Enum\ProductAvailability;
use GiveTwice\ProductInfoFetcher\Enum\ProductCondition;

// Availability values
ProductAvailability::InStock
ProductAvailability::OutOfStock
ProductAvailability::PreOrder
ProductAvailability::BackOrder
ProductAvailability::Discontinued

// Condition values
ProductCondition::New
ProductCondition::Used
ProductCondition::Refurbished
ProductCondition::Damaged

// Usage
if ($product->availability === ProductAvailability::InStock) {
    // Product is available
}

// Get string value
$product->availability?->value; // "InStock"
```

### Multiple Images

The `imageUrl` field contains the primary image (first found). The `allImageUrls` array contains all unique images found across all sources (JSON-LD, meta tags, and HTML image elements):

```php
$product->imageUrl;      // Primary image (first found)
$product->allImageUrls;  // All unique images from all sources

// Example: different resolutions from different sources
// [0] "http://example.com/product-370x370.jpg"  (from JSON-LD)
// [1] "//example.com/product-big.jpg"           (from og:image)
```

This is useful when sources provide different image sizes or when you want fallback options.

### With Options

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product'))
    ->setUserAgent('MyApp/1.0 (https://myapp.com)')
    ->setTimeout(10)
    ->setConnectTimeout(5)
    ->setAcceptLanguage('nl-BE,nl;q=0.9,en;q=0.8')
    ->fetchAndParse();
```

### Custom Headers

For sites with stricter bot detection, you can add extra HTTP headers to mimic a real browser:

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product'))
    ->withExtraHeaders([
        'Accept' => 'text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,image/avif,image/webp,*/*;q=0.8',
        'Cache-Control' => 'no-cache',
        'DNT' => '1',
        'Sec-CH-UA' => '"Google Chrome";v="131", "Chromium";v="131"',
        'Sec-CH-UA-Mobile' => '?0',
        'Sec-CH-UA-Platform' => '"macOS"',
        'Sec-Fetch-Dest' => 'document',
        'Sec-Fetch-Mode' => 'navigate',
        'Sec-Fetch-Site' => 'none',
        'Sec-Fetch-User' => '?1',
        'Upgrade-Insecure-Requests' => '1',
    ])
    ->fetchAndParse();
```

Extra headers are merged with defaults and can override them. Multiple `withExtraHeaders()` calls can be chained.

### Headless Browser Fallback

Some sites use advanced bot protection (Akamai, Cloudflare) that blocks simple HTTP requests. For these sites, you can enable a headless browser fallback that uses Puppeteer to fetch the page:

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product'))
    ->enableHeadlessFallback()
    ->fetchAndParse();
```

When enabled, the fetcher will:
1. First attempt a normal HTTP request
2. If blocked with a 403 status, automatically retry using a headless Chrome browser
3. Parse the resulting HTML as usual

**Requirements:**

To use the headless fallback, you need Node.js 18+ and Puppeteer installed:

```bash
npm install puppeteer@^23.0 puppeteer-extra@^3.3 puppeteer-extra-plugin-stealth@^2.11
```

On Linux servers, you may also need system dependencies for headless Chrome:

```bash
# Ubuntu 24.04+
apt-get install -y libnss3 libatk1.0-0t64 libatk-bridge2.0-0t64 \
  libcups2t64 libdrm2 libxkbcommon0 libxcomposite1 \
  libxdamage1 libxfixes3 libxrandr2 libgbm1 libasound2t64 \
  libpango-1.0-0 libcairo2

# Ubuntu 22.04 and earlier
apt-get install -y libnss3 libatk1.0-0 libatk-bridge2.0-0 \
  libcups2 libdrm2 libxkbcommon0 libxcomposite1 \
  libxdamage1 libxfixes3 libxrandr2 libgbm1 libasound2
```

**Custom Paths:**

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product'))
    ->enableHeadlessFallback()
    ->setNodeBinary('/usr/local/bin/node')
    ->setChromePath('/usr/bin/chromium')
    ->fetchAndParse();
```

### Separate Fetch and Parse

```php
$fetcher = new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product');
$fetcher->fetch();
$product = $fetcher->parse();
```

### Parse Existing HTML

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher())
    ->setHtml($html)
    ->parse();
```

### Access as Array

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher($url))->fetchAndParse();

$data = $product->toArray();
// [
//     'name' => 'iPhone 15 Pro',
//     'description' => 'The latest iPhone...',
//     'url' => 'https://example.com/product',
//     'priceInCents' => 99900,
//     'priceCurrency' => 'USD',
//     'imageUrl' => 'https://example.com/image.jpg',
//     'allImageUrls' => ['https://...', 'https://...'],
//     'brand' => 'Apple',
//     'sku' => 'IPHONE15PRO-256',
//     'gtin' => '0194253392200',
//     'availability' => 'InStock',
//     'condition' => 'New',
//     'rating' => 4.8,
//     'reviewCount' => 1250,
// ]
```

### Check Completeness

```php
if ($product->isComplete()) {
    // Product has name and description
}
```

## How It Works

The package attempts to extract product information in the following order:

1. **JSON-LD** - Looks for `<script type="application/ld+json">` with `@type: Product` or `@type: ProductGroup`
2. **Meta Tags** - Falls back to Open Graph (`og:`), Twitter Cards (`twitter:`), and standard meta tags
3. **HTML Images** - Extracts product images directly from `<img>` elements using common patterns (Amazon's `landingImage`, product image classes, data attributes)

If the first parser returns complete data (name and description), it returns immediately. Otherwise, it merges results from multiple parsers. Images from all three sources are always combined.

### Supported Structures

- **schema.org Product** - Standard product markup including `offers`, `brand`, `sku`, `gtin`, `aggregateRating`
- **schema.org ProductGroup** - Product variants (e.g., bol.com) with `hasVariant[]`
- **Open Graph** - `og:title`, `og:description`, `og:image`, `product:price:amount`, `product:price:currency`, `product:availability`, `product:condition`

Both short (`"@type": "Product"`) and full URL (`"@type": "http://schema.org/Product"`) formats are supported for all schema.org types.

### Meta Tag Fallback Chain

When JSON-LD is unavailable, the parser tries multiple sources:

- **name**: `og:title` → `twitter:title` → `<title>`
- **description**: `og:description` → `twitter:description` → `<meta name="description">`
- **image**: `og:image` → `twitter:image` → HTML image elements
- **url**: `<link rel="canonical">` → `og:url`

### HTML Image Extraction

For sites without structured data or meta tags (e.g., Amazon), the package extracts images directly from HTML:

- **Amazon pattern**: `<img id="landingImage">` with `data-old-hires` for high-res images
- **Common IDs**: `main-image`, `product-image`, `hero-image`
- **Common classes**: `product-image`, `main-image`, `gallery-image`
- **Data attributes**: `data-zoom-image`, `data-large-image`, `data-src`

High-resolution images are prioritized when available.

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/spatie/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [GiveTwice](https://github.com/GiveTwice)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Add option to prefer only headless modes

README.md, after:

# Product Info Fetcher

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/givetwice/product-info-fetcher.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/givetwice/product-info-fetcher)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/GiveTwice/product-info-fetcher/run-tests.yml?branch=main&label=tests&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/GiveTwice/product-info-fetcher/actions/workflows/run-tests.yml)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/givetwice/product-info-fetcher.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/givetwice/product-info-fetcher)

A PHP package that fetches product information from any URL and returns structured data. It parses JSON-LD structured data, Open Graph meta tags, and HTML image elements to extract product details like name, description, price, and images.

## Installation

```bash
composer require givetwice/product-info-fetcher
```

## Usage

### Basic

```php
use GiveTwice\ProductInfoFetcher\ProductInfoFetcher;

$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product'))
    ->fetchAndParse();

// Core fields
echo $product->name;          // "iPhone 15 Pro"
echo $product->description;   // "The latest iPhone with A17 Pro chip"
echo $product->priceInCents;  // 99900
echo $product->priceCurrency; // "USD"
echo $product->url;           // "https://example.com/product"
echo $product->imageUrl;      // "https://example.com/images/iphone.jpg"
echo $product->allImageUrls;  // ["https://...", "https://..."] (all found images)

// Additional fields
echo $product->brand;         // "Apple"
echo $product->sku;           // "IPHONE15PRO-256"
echo $product->gtin;          // "0194253392200"
echo $product->availability;  // ProductAvailability::InStock
echo $product->condition;     // ProductCondition::New
echo $product->rating;        // 4.8
echo $product->reviewCount;   // 1250

// For display purposes
echo $product->getFormattedPrice(); // "USD 999.00"
```

### Pricing

Prices are stored as integers in cents to avoid floating-point precision issues. This follows the same approach used by payment systems like Stripe.

```php
$product->priceInCents;  // 139099 (integer)
$product->priceCurrency; // "EUR" (ISO 4217 currency code)

// For display
$product->getFormattedPrice(); // "EUR 1390.99"

// For calculations (no floating-point issues)
$total = $product->priceInCents * $quantity;
$displayPrice = number_format($total / 100, 2);
```

The parser normalizes various price formats:
- String prices: `"999.00"` → `99900`
- Integer prices: `1479` → `147900`
- European format: `"1.234,56"` → `123456`

### Availability & Condition

The `availability` and `condition` fields return enum instances:

```php
use GiveTwice\ProductInfoFetcher\Enum\ProductAvailability;
use GiveTwice\ProductInfoFetcher\Enum\ProductCondition;

// Availability values
ProductAvailability::InStock
ProductAvailability::OutOfStock
ProductAvailability::PreOrder
ProductAvailability::BackOrder
ProductAvailability::Discontinued

// Condition values
ProductCondition::New
ProductCondition::Used
ProductCondition::Refurbished
ProductCondition::Damaged

// Usage
if ($product->availability === ProductAvailability::InStock) {
    // Product is available
}

// Get string value
$product->availability?->value; // "InStock"
```

### Multiple Images

The `imageUrl` field contains the primary image (first found). The `allImageUrls` array contains all unique images found across all sources (JSON-LD, meta tags, and HTML image elements):

```php
$product->imageUrl;      // Primary image (first found)
$product->allImageUrls;  // All unique images from all sources

// Example: different resolutions from different sources
// [0] "http://example.com/product-370x370.jpg"  (from JSON-LD)
// [1] "//example.com/product-big.jpg"           (from og:image)
```

This is useful when sources provide different image sizes or when you want fallback options.

### With Options

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product'))
    ->setUserAgent('MyApp/1.0 (https://myapp.com)')
    ->setTimeout(10)
    ->setConnectTimeout(5)
    ->setAcceptLanguage('nl-BE,nl;q=0.9,en;q=0.8')
    ->fetchAndParse();
```

### Custom Headers

For sites with stricter bot detection, you can add extra HTTP headers to mimic a real browser:

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product'))
    ->withExtraHeaders([
        'Accept' => 'text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,image/avif,image/webp,*/*;q=0.8',
        'Cache-Control' => 'no-cache',
        'DNT' => '1',
        'Sec-CH-UA' => '"Google Chrome";v="131", "Chromium";v="131"',
        'Sec-CH-UA-Mobile' => '?0',
        'Sec-CH-UA-Platform' => '"macOS"',
        'Sec-Fetch-Dest' => 'document',
        'Sec-Fetch-Mode' => 'navigate',
        'Sec-Fetch-Site' => 'none',
        'Sec-Fetch-User' => '?1',
        'Upgrade-Insecure-Requests' => '1',
    ])
    ->fetchAndParse();
```

Extra headers are merged with defaults and can override them. Multiple `withExtraHeaders()` calls can be chained.

### Headless Browser

Some sites use advanced bot protection (Akamai, Cloudflare) that blocks simple HTTP requests. For these sites, you can use a headless Chrome browser via Puppeteer to fetch the page.

**Prefer Headless (recommended for known-protected sites):**

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product'))
    ->preferHeadless()
    ->fetchAndParse();
```

Use `preferHeadless()` when you know the site has bot protection. This skips the HTTP request entirely and uses headless Chrome directly. This is more efficient because attempting an HTTP request first can get your IP flagged, causing subsequent headless requests to also fail.

**Fallback Mode:**

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product'))
    ->enableHeadlessFallback()
    ->fetchAndParse();
```

When enabled, the fetcher will:
1. First attempt a normal HTTP request
2. If blocked with a 403 status, automatically retry using a headless Chrome browser
3. Parse the resulting HTML as usual

Use `enableHeadlessFallback()` when you're unsure if the site has bot protection and want to try the faster HTTP request first.

**Requirements:**

To use the headless fallback, you need Node.js 18+ and Puppeteer installed:

```bash
npm install puppeteer@^23.0 puppeteer-extra@^3.3 puppeteer-extra-plugin-stealth@^2.11
```

On Linux servers, you may also need system dependencies for headless Chrome:

```bash
# Ubuntu 24.04+
apt-get install -y libnss3 libatk1.0-0t64 libatk-bridge2.0-0t64 \
  libcups2t64 libdrm2 libxkbcommon0 libxcomposite1 \
  libxdamage1 libxfixes3 libxrandr2 libgbm1 libasound2t64 \
  libpango-1.0-0 libcairo2

# Ubuntu 22.04 and earlier
apt-get install -y libnss3 libatk1.0-0 libatk-bridge2.0-0 \
  libcups2 libdrm2 libxkbcommon0 libxcomposite1 \
  libxdamage1 libxfixes3 libxrandr2 libgbm1 libasound2
```

**Custom Paths:**

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product'))
    ->enableHeadlessFallback()
    ->setNodeBinary('/usr/local/bin/node')
    ->setChromePath('/usr/bin/chromium')
    ->fetchAndParse();
```

### Separate Fetch and Parse

```php
$fetcher = new ProductInfoFetcher('https://example.com/product');
$fetcher->fetch();
$product = $fetcher->parse();
```

### Parse Existing HTML

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher())
    ->setHtml($html)
    ->parse();
```

### Access as Array

```php
$product = (new ProductInfoFetcher($url))->fetchAndParse();

$data = $product->toArray();
// [
//     'name' => 'iPhone 15 Pro',
//     'description' => 'The latest iPhone...',
//     'url' => 'https://example.com/product',
//     'priceInCents' => 99900,
//     'priceCurrency' => 'USD',
//     'imageUrl' => 'https://example.com/image.jpg',
//     'allImageUrls' => ['https://...', 'https://...'],
//     'brand' => 'Apple',
//     'sku' => 'IPHONE15PRO-256',
//     'gtin' => '0194253392200',
//     'availability' => 'InStock',
//     'condition' => 'New',
//     'rating' => 4.8,
//     'reviewCount' => 1250,
// ]
```

### Check Completeness

```php
if ($product->isComplete()) {
    // Product has name and description
}
```

## How It Works

The package attempts to extract product information in the following order:

1. **JSON-LD** - Looks for `<script type="application/ld+json">` with `@type: Product` or `@type: ProductGroup`
2. **Meta Tags** - Falls back to Open Graph (`og:`), Twitter Cards (`twitter:`), and standard meta tags
3. **HTML Images** - Extracts product images directly from `<img>` elements using common patterns (Amazon's `landingImage`, product image classes, data attributes)

If the first parser returns complete data (name and description), it returns immediately. Otherwise, it merges results from multiple parsers. Images from all three sources are always combined.

### Supported Structures

- **schema.org Product** - Standard product markup including `offers`, `brand`, `sku`, `gtin`, `aggregateRating`
- **schema.org ProductGroup** - Product variants (e.g., bol.com) with `hasVariant[]`
- **Open Graph** - `og:title`, `og:description`, `og:image`, `product:price:amount`, `product:price:currency`, `product:availability`, `product:condition`

Both short (`"@type": "Product"`) and full URL (`"@type": "http://schema.org/Product"`) formats are supported for all schema.org types.

### Meta Tag Fallback Chain

When JSON-LD is unavailable, the parser tries multiple sources:

- **name**: `og:title` → `twitter:title` → `<title>`
- **description**: `og:description` → `twitter:description` → `<meta name="description">`
- **image**: `og:image` → `twitter:image` → HTML image elements
- **url**: `<link rel="canonical">` → `og:url`

### HTML Image Extraction

For sites without structured data or meta tags (e.g., Amazon), the package extracts images directly from HTML:

- **Amazon pattern**: `<img id="landingImage">` with `data-old-hires` for high-res images
- **Common IDs**: `main-image`, `product-image`, `hero-image`
- **Common classes**: `product-image`, `main-image`, `gallery-image`
- **Data attributes**: `data-zoom-image`, `data-large-image`, `data-src`

High-resolution images are prioritized when available.

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/spatie/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [GiveTwice](https://github.com/GiveTwice)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
